it's Microsoft's cloud platform that allows us
to provision a new virtual machine we just click
on the virtual machine icon.
And from there we can go ahead and add the virtual machine.
And this will take us into a form where
we can specify the details of our virtual machine
that we'd like to provision.
The first thing we'll need to do is create
a resource group by clicking on the create new link.
I'm going to name this resource group H Sports
dash resources and then go ahead and click okay.
We'll then scroll down where we can provide
a name for our virtual machine.
Let's name this machine the H Sports dash API dash server.
Next, we'll select the OS image that we would
like installed on the machine.
In this case we're going to use an Ubuntu image,
version 16.04.
So we'll have a Linux distro.
Scrolling down, you'll see that we can specify
the authentication type for our administrator account.
I'm going to go ahead and set this to password
and then for the username of the admin account
I'm going to specify the H Sports admin.
And then from here we'll need to enter
the password for this new admin account.
With the admin password in place, the next thing
we'll do is open up the ports available
on the server that are exposed externally.
So click on the allow selected ports radio button.
And then we're going to specify that we'd like
to allow HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH.
At this point, we've provided enough details
for Azure to create our new Linux VM.
So let's just click on review and create.
It appears that our virtual machine has passed
validation so we just need to click create
one more time.
You'll now see that Azure has begun to deploy
our new Linux VM.
And it's that easy with Azure.
In just a few minutes we can build out a Linux VM
that we can use to host our API implementation.